docs/api.md, before:

# Background
## Package handles
* Packages are referenced by a handle of the form `OWNER/NAME`
* Teams packages include a prefix, `TEAM:OWNER/NAME`

## READMEs 
A `README.md` is recommended at the root of your package. README files support [full markdown syntax via remarkable](https://jonschlinkert.github.io/remarkable/demo/). READMEs are rendered to HTML on the [package landing page](https://quiltdata.com/package/danWebster/sgRNAs).

## Short hashes
Commands that take hashes support "short hashes", up to uniqueness.
```sh
quilt install akarve/examples -x 4594b5
# matches hash 4594b58d64dd9c98b79b628370618031c66e80cbbd1db48662be0b7cac36a74e
```
 In practice, 6-8 characters is sufficient to achieve uniqueness.

## Requirements file (quilt.yml)
```sh
$ quilt install [@filename]
# quilt.yml is the default if @filename is absent
```

Installs a list of packages specified by a YAML file. The YAML file must contain a `packages` node with a list of packages: 
```yaml
packages:
  - USER/PACKAGE[/SUBPACKAGE][:hash|:tag|:version][:HASH|TAG|VERSION]
```

### Example
```
packages:
  - vgauthier/DynamicPopEstimate   # get latest
  - danWebster/sgRNAs:a972d92      # get a specific version via hash
  - akarve/sales:tag:latest        # get a specific version via tag
  - asah/snli:v:1.0                # get a specific version via version
```

# API
## Core: build, push, and install packages
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt build USER/PACKAGE PATH` | `quilt.build("USER/PACKAGE", "PATH")` | `PATH` may be a `build.yml` file or a directory. If a directory is given, Quilt will internally generate a build file (useful, e.g. for directories of images). `build.yml` is for users who want fine-grained control over parsing. |
| `quilt push USER/PACKAGE [--public` &#124; `--team]` | `quilt.push("USER/PACKAGE", public=False, team=False)` | Stores the package in the registry |
| `quilt install USER/PACKAGE[/SUBPATH/...]` | `quilt.install("USER/PACKAGE[/SUBPATH/...]", hash="HASH", tag="TAG", version="VERSION")` | Installs a package or sub-package |
| `quilt install @FILE=quilt.yml` | Not supported | Installs all specified packages using the requirements syntax (above) |
| `quilt delete USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.delete("USER/PACKAGE")` | Removes the package from the registry. Does not delete local data. |

# Versioning
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
`quilt log USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.log(USER/PACKAGE)` | Display push history |
| `quilt version list USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.version_list(USER/PACKAGE)` | Display versions of a package |
| `quilt version add USER/PACKAGE VERSION HASH` | `quilt.version_add(USER/PACKAGE, VERSION, HASH)` |  Associate a version with a hash |
| `quilt tag list USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.tag_list(USER/PACKAGE)` | List available tags |
| `quilt tag add USER/PACKAGE TAG HASH` |`quilt.tag_add(USER/PACKAGE, TAG, HASH)` | Associate a tag with a hash |
| `quilt tag remove USER/PACKAGE TAG` | `quilt.tag_remove(USER/PACKAGE, TAG)` | Remove a tag |

## Instances, hashes, tags, and versions
* A package _instance_ is a package handle plus a hash. `akarve/sales:fc7f0b` is an instance. Instances are immutable.
* _Hashes_ are automatically generated by Quilt for each package build.
* _Tags_ are human-readable strings associated with a package instance. Tags can be altered to point to different instances of the same package. The most recent build is automatically tagged `"latest"`.
* _Versions_ are human-readable strings associated with a package instance. Unlike tags, versions can only ever point to a single package instance.

# Access
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt login [TEAM]` | `quilt.login(["TEAM"])` | Authenticate to a registry |
| `quilt access list USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.access_list("USER/PACKAGE")` | List user who have access to a package |
| `quilt access add USER/PACKAGE USER_OR_GROUP` |  `quilt.access_add("USER/PACKAGE", "USER_OR_GROUP")` | Grant read access to a user or group (one of `public` or `team`) |
| `quilt access remove USER_OR_GROUP` | `quilt.access_remove("USER/PACKAGE", "USER_OR_GROUP")` | Remove read access |

# Local storage
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt ls` | `quilt.ls()` | List installed packages |
| `quilt rm USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.rm("USER/PACKAGE")` | Remove a package from local storage (but not from the registry) |

# Registry search
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt search "SEARCH STRING"` |  `quilt.search("SEARCH STRING")` | Search registry for packages by user or package name |

# Import and use data
## Public users
```python
from quilt.data.USER import PACKAGE
```
## Team users
```python
from quilt.TEAM.USER import PKG
```
# Using packages
Packages contain three types of nodes:
* `PackageNode` - the root of the package tree
* `GroupNode` - like a folder; may contain one or more `GroupNode` or `DataNode` objects
* `DataNode` - a leaf node in the package; contains actual data

## Working with package contents
* List node contents with dot notation: `PACKAGE.NODE.ANOTHER_NODE`
* Retrieve the contents of a `DataNode` with `_data()`, or simply `()`: `PACKAGE.NODE.ANOTHER_NODE()`
  * Columnar data (`XLS`, `CSV`, `TSV`, etc.) returns as a `pandas.DataFrame`
  * All other data types return a string to the path of the object in the package store


## Enumerating package contents
* `quilt.inspect("USER/PACKAGE")` shows package columns, types, and shape
* `NODE._keys()` returns a list of all children
* `NODE._data_keys()` returns a list of all data children (leaf nodes containing actual data)
* `NODE._group_keys()` returns a list of all group children (groups are like folders)

### Example
```
from quilt.data.uciml import wine
In [7]: wine._keys()
Out[7]: ['README', 'raw', 'tables']
In [8]: wine._data_keys()
Out[8]: ['README']
In [9]: wine._group_keys()
Out[9]: ['raw', 'tables']
```

Commit message:

eliminate duplication and dovetail teams docs

docs/api.md, after:

# Background
## Package handles
* Packages are referenced by a handle of the form `OWNER/NAME`
* Teams packages include a prefix, `TEAM:OWNER/NAME`

## READMEs 
A `README.md` is recommended at the root of your package. README files support [full markdown syntax via remarkable](https://jonschlinkert.github.io/remarkable/demo/). READMEs are rendered to HTML on the [package landing page](https://quiltdata.com/package/danWebster/sgRNAs).

## Short hashes
Commands that take hashes support "short hashes", up to uniqueness.
```sh
quilt install akarve/examples -x 4594b5
# matches hash 4594b58d64dd9c98b79b628370618031c66e80cbbd1db48662be0b7cac36a74e
```
 In practice, 6-8 characters is sufficient to achieve uniqueness.

## Requirements file (quilt.yml)
```sh
$ quilt install [@filename]
# quilt.yml is the default if @filename is absent
```

Installs a list of packages specified by a YAML file. The YAML file must contain a `packages` node with a list of packages: 
```yaml
packages:
  - USER/PACKAGE[/SUBPACKAGE][:hash|:tag|:version][:HASH|TAG|VERSION]
```

### Example
```
packages:
  - vgauthier/DynamicPopEstimate   # get latest
  - danWebster/sgRNAs:a972d92      # get a specific version via hash
  - akarve/sales:tag:latest        # get a specific version via tag
  - asah/snli:v:1.0                # get a specific version via version
```

# API

## Team users
See [teams docs](./teams.md) for additional commands and syntax.

## Core: build, push, and install packages
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt build USER/PACKAGE PATH` | `quilt.build("USER/PACKAGE", "PATH")` | `PATH` may be a `build.yml` file or a directory. If a directory is given, Quilt will internally generate a build file (useful, e.g. for directories of images). `build.yml` is for users who want fine-grained control over parsing. |
| `quilt push USER/PACKAGE [--public` &#124; `--team]` | `quilt.push("USER/PACKAGE", public=False, team=False)` | Stores the package in the registry |
| `quilt install USER/PACKAGE[/SUBPATH/...]` | `quilt.install("USER/PACKAGE[/SUBPATH/...]", hash="HASH", tag="TAG", version="VERSION")` | Installs a package or sub-package |
| `quilt install @FILE=quilt.yml` | Not supported | Installs all specified packages using the requirements syntax (above) |
| `quilt delete USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.delete("USER/PACKAGE")` | Removes the package from the registry. Does not delete local data. |

# Versioning
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
`quilt log USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.log(USER/PACKAGE)` | Display push history |
| `quilt version list USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.version_list(USER/PACKAGE)` | Display versions of a package |
| `quilt version add USER/PACKAGE VERSION HASH` | `quilt.version_add(USER/PACKAGE, VERSION, HASH)` |  Associate a version with a hash |
| `quilt tag list USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.tag_list(USER/PACKAGE)` | List available tags |
| `quilt tag add USER/PACKAGE TAG HASH` |`quilt.tag_add(USER/PACKAGE, TAG, HASH)` | Associate a tag with a hash |
| `quilt tag remove USER/PACKAGE TAG` | `quilt.tag_remove(USER/PACKAGE, TAG)` | Remove a tag |

## Instances, hashes, tags, and versions
* A package _instance_ is a package handle plus a hash. `akarve/sales:fc7f0b` is an instance. Instances are immutable.
* _Hashes_ are automatically generated by Quilt for each package build.
* _Tags_ are human-readable strings associated with a package instance. Tags can be altered to point to different instances of the same package. The most recent build is automatically tagged `"latest"`.
* _Versions_ are human-readable strings associated with a package instance. Unlike tags, versions can only ever point to a single package instance.

# Access
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt login [TEAM]` | `quilt.login(["TEAM"])` | Authenticate to a registry |
| `quilt access list USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.access_list("USER/PACKAGE")` | List user who have access to a package |
| `quilt access add USER/PACKAGE USER_OR_GROUP` |  `quilt.access_add("USER/PACKAGE", "USER_OR_GROUP")` | Grant read access to a user or group (one of `public` or `team`) |
| `quilt access remove USER_OR_GROUP` | `quilt.access_remove("USER/PACKAGE", "USER_OR_GROUP")` | Remove read access |

# Local storage
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt ls` | `quilt.ls()` | List installed packages |
| `quilt rm USER/PACKAGE` | `quilt.rm("USER/PACKAGE")` | Remove a package from local storage (but not from the registry) |

# Registry search
| Command line | Python | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `quilt search "SEARCH STRING"` |  `quilt.search("SEARCH STRING")` | Search registry for packages by user or package name |

# Import and use data
```python
from quilt.data.USER import PACKAGE
```


# Using packages
Packages contain three types of nodes:
* `PackageNode` - the root of the package tree
* `GroupNode` - like a folder; may contain one or more `GroupNode` or `DataNode` objects
* `DataNode` - a leaf node in the package; contains actual data

## Working with package contents
* List node contents with dot notation: `PACKAGE.NODE.ANOTHER_NODE`
* Retrieve the contents of a `DataNode` with `_data()`, or simply `()`: `PACKAGE.NODE.ANOTHER_NODE()`
  * Columnar data (`XLS`, `CSV`, `TSV`, etc.) returns as a `pandas.DataFrame`
  * All other data types return a string to the path of the object in the package store

## Enumerating package contents
* `quilt.inspect("USER/PACKAGE")` shows package columns, types, and shape
* `NODE._keys()` returns a list of all children
* `NODE._data_keys()` returns a list of all data children (leaf nodes containing actual data)
* `NODE._group_keys()` returns a list of all group children (groups are like folders)

### Example
```
from quilt.data.uciml import wine
In [7]: wine._keys()
Out[7]: ['README', 'raw', 'tables']
In [8]: wine._data_keys()
Out[8]: ['README']
In [9]: wine._group_keys()
Out[9]: ['raw', 'tables']
```
