docs/edit-a-package.md, before:

# Existing package
Start by installing and importing the package you wish to modify:
``` python
import quilt
quilt.install("akarve/wine")
from quilt.data.akarve import wine
```

# New package
You can also build packages on the fly:
```python
import pandas as pd
import quilt

df = pd.DataFrame(data=[1,2,3])
```

## Edit package contents

Use the Pandas API to edit existing dataframes:
``` python
red_df = wine.quality.red._data()
red_df.set_value(0, 'quality', 6)
```
(The `_data()` method caches the dataframe so it will return the same object each time - however, it's not saved to disk yet.)

Use the standard Python syntax to create or delete attributes:
``` python
wine.quality.red2 = wine.quality.red
del wine.quality.red
```

Use the `_set` helper method on the top-level package node to create new groups and data nodes:
``` python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame(dict(x=[1, 2, 3]))
wine._set(["group", "df"], df)
assert wine.group.df._data() is df
```

At this point the package owner can build the package in-place and push to update the package.
```python
quilt.build("akarve/wine", wine)
quilt.push("akarve/wine")
```

Alternatively, if you are not the package owner, you can build the modified packing into a new handle as follows:
``` python
quilt.build("my_user/wine_modified", wine)
```

***

Commit message:

Incorporate last changes from quilt-docs repo

docs/edit-a-package.md, after:

# Existing package
Start by installing and importing the package you wish to modify:
``` python
import quilt
quilt.install("uciml/wine")
from quilt.data.uciml import wine
```

# New package
You can also build packages on the fly:
```python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame(data=[1,2,3])
```

## Edit package

Use the Pandas API to edit existing dataframes:
``` python
df = wine.tables.wine()
hue = df['Hue']
df['HueNormalized'] = (hue - hue.min())/(hue.max() - hue.min())
```

Use `del` to delete attributes:
``` python
del wine.raw.wine
```

Use the `_set` helper method on the top-level package node to create new groups and data nodes:
``` python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame(dict(x=[1, 2, 3]))
# insert a dataframe at wine.mygroup.data()
wine._set(["mygroup", "data"], df) 
# insert a file at wine.mygroup.anothergroup.blob()
wine._set(["mygroup", "anothergroup", "blob"], "localpath/file.txt") #
```

Now you can rebuild the package to save the changes and then push the result to Quilt. (Note that only the package owner can modify the package. In the present example you can rebuild the wine package into your own package repository.)

First, log in to quilt:
```
$ quilt login
```

Finally name and push your package:
```python
# build a package based on the current state of wine
quilt.build("YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_PACKAGENAME", wine)
# push it to the registry.  NOTE: this becomes public and crawlable by Google for example.
quilt.push("YOUR_USERNAME/YOUR_PACKAGENAME", public=True)
```

***
