docs/step-by-step.md, before:

# Work with packages

## Read a package
Packages may contain data of any size or type. A given package _instance_--specified
by a hash, tag, or version--is _immutable_ for reproducibility.

### Install a data package from  user `uciml`
```bash
$ quilt install uciml/iris
```

> Note: most Quilt commands are available _both on the command line and in Python_.

You can install a package as follows:

```python
import quilt
quilt.install("uciml/iris")
```

### Import the package
```
$ python
>>> from quilt.data.uciml import iris
>>> iris
<PackageNode 'Users/YOU/quilt_packages/uciml/iris'>
raw/
tables/
README
>>> iris.tables.bezdek_iris() # this is a pandas DataFrame
    sepal_length  sepal_width  petal_length  petal_width  label
0  5.1           3.5          1.4           0.2          Iris-setosa
1  4.9           3.0          1.4           0.2          Iris-setosa
2  4.7           3.2          1.3           0.2          Iris-setosa
...
```

Read more about the `uciml/iris` package on its [landing page](https://quiltdata.com/package/uciml/iris), or [browse  packages on Quilt](https://quiltdata.com/search/?q=).

## Edit a package
Start by installing and importing the package you wish to modify:
``` python
import quilt
quilt.install("uciml/wine")
from quilt.data.uciml import wine
```

Alternatively, you can  build an empty package and import it for editing:
```python
import quilt
quilt.build("USER/FOO")
from quilt.data.USER import FOO
```

### Edit dataframe nodes
Use the Pandas API to edit existing dataframes:
``` python
df = wine.tables.wine()
hue = df['Hue']
df['HueNormalized'] = (hue - hue.min())/(hue.max() - hue.min())
```

### Add package nodes
Use the `_set` helper method on the top-level package node to create new groups and data nodes:
``` python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame(dict(x=[1, 2, 3]))
# insert a dataframe at wine.mygroup.data()
wine._set(["mygroup", "data"], df) 
# insert a file at wine.mygroup.anothergroup.blob()
wine._set(["mygroup", "anothergroup", "blob"], "localpath/file.txt") #
```

### Delete package nodes
Use `del` to delete attributes:
``` python
del wine.raw.wine
```

### Edit metadata
Use the `_meta` attribute to attach any JSON-serializable dictionary of metadata to a group or a data node:

``` python
wine.mygroup._meta['foo'] = 'bar'
wine.mygroup._meta['created'] = time.time()
```

Data nodes contain a built-in key `_meta['_system']` with information such as the original file path. You may access it, but any modifications to it may be lost.

### Persist changes
At this point, your changes only exist in memory. To persist your
changes, read on to learn about  `build` and `push`.

## Build a package

Building a package creates a local bundle of serialized data. `$ quilt ls`
displays your local packages and their location on disk.

There are three ways to build data packages with Quilt:

1. Implicitly with `quilt build USR/PKG DIRECTORY`. Implicit builds are good for taking quick snapshots of unstructured data like images or text files. Quilt serializes columnar formats formats (xls, csv, tsv, etc.) to data frames; all other files will be copied "as is".

1. Explicitly with `quilt build USR/PKG FILE.YML`. Explicit builds allow fine-grained control over package names, types, and contents.

1. One the fly, in Python

Each of the above methods for building packages is supported in [Python](./api.md) and on the [command line](./api.md).

### Implicit builds

To implicitly build a package of unserialized data:

```bash
quilt build USR/PKG DIRECTORY
```
Everything in `DIR` and it's subdirectories will be packaged into `USR/PKG`.

To publish your package:
```bash
quilt push USR/PKG --public
```
Users on Individual and Business plans can omit the ~~`--public`~~ flag to create private packages.

### Explicit builds

Explicit builds cue from a YAML file, conventionally called `build.yml`.

```bash
quilt build USR/PKG BUILD.YML
```

`build.yml` specifies the structure and contents of a package.

#### `quilt generate` creates a `build.yml` file

An easy way to create a `build.yml` file is as follows:

```bash
quilt generate DIR
```

The above command creates `build.yml` and `README.md` files that you can modify to your liking. A `README.md` file is highly recommended as it populates your package landing page with documentation. See the API section for more on how README markdown is converted to HTML.

See [`build.yml` syntax](https://docs.quiltdata.com/api/build.yml) for more.

##### Directory and file naming in `quilt generate`
* Directories and files that start with a numeric character or underscore will be prefixed with the letter `n`. If a name collision results, the build will fail with an error.
* If two files have the same path and root name, but different file extensions (`foo.txt`, `foo.csv`), the extensions will be appended as follows: `foo_txt`, `foo_csv`. If, after appending, there remains a name collision, the build will fail with an error.

### Build on the fly

```python
# start with an empty package
quilt.build("akarve/foo")
# put some data in it
import pandas as pd
from quilt.data.akarve import foo
df = pd.DataFrame(data=[1,2,3])
foo._set(['bar'], df)
foo.bar()
# Output:
# 0
# 0	1
# 1	2
# 2	3
```

### Valid package names
Package handles take the form `USER_NAME/PACKAGE_NAME`. The package name and all of its children must be valid Python identifiers:
* Start with a letter
* Contain only alphanumerics and underscore

The above criteria ensure that packages can be accessed with Python's dot operator.

## Push a package
Pushing a package stores a built package in a server-side registry. Push a package
to back up changes or share your package with others.

```bash
$ quilt login # requires free account
$ quilt push USR/PKG --public
```

Or, in Python:
```python
# log in to the registry (requires a free account)
quilt.login()
# push it to the registry
quilt.push("USR/PKG", is_public=True)
```

Users on Individual and Business plans can omit ~~is_public=True~~ to create private packages.

Commit message:

Link to subpackage build and push

docs/step-by-step.md, after:

# Work with packages

## Read a package
Packages may contain data of any size or type. A given package _instance_--specified
by a hash, tag, or version--is _immutable_ for reproducibility.

### Install a data package from  user `uciml`
```bash
$ quilt install uciml/iris
```

> Note: most Quilt commands are available _both on the command line and in Python_.

You can install a package as follows:

```python
import quilt
quilt.install("uciml/iris")
```

### Import the package
```
$ python
>>> from quilt.data.uciml import iris
>>> iris
<PackageNode 'Users/YOU/quilt_packages/uciml/iris'>
raw/
tables/
README
>>> iris.tables.bezdek_iris() # this is a pandas DataFrame
    sepal_length  sepal_width  petal_length  petal_width  label
0  5.1           3.5          1.4           0.2          Iris-setosa
1  4.9           3.0          1.4           0.2          Iris-setosa
2  4.7           3.2          1.3           0.2          Iris-setosa
...
```

Read more about the `uciml/iris` package on its [landing page](https://quiltdata.com/package/uciml/iris), or [browse  packages on Quilt](https://quiltdata.com/search/?q=).

## Edit a package
Start by installing and importing the package you wish to modify:
``` python
import quilt
quilt.install("uciml/wine")
from quilt.data.uciml import wine
```

Alternatively, you can  build an empty package and import it for editing:
```python
import quilt
quilt.build("USER/FOO")
from quilt.data.USER import FOO
```

> **Update**: As of version 2.9.9,  easiest method to edit a package is to use [subpackage build and push](https://github.com/quiltdata/examples/blob/master/Numpy%2C%20easy%20package%20edit.ipynb).

### Edit dataframe nodes
Use the Pandas API to edit existing dataframes:
``` python
df = wine.tables.wine()
hue = df['Hue']
df['HueNormalized'] = (hue - hue.min())/(hue.max() - hue.min())
```

### Add package nodes
Use the `_set` helper method on the top-level package node to create new groups and data nodes:
``` python
import pandas as pd
df = pd.DataFrame(dict(x=[1, 2, 3]))
# insert a dataframe at wine.mygroup.data()
wine._set(["mygroup", "data"], df) 
# insert a file at wine.mygroup.anothergroup.blob()
wine._set(["mygroup", "anothergroup", "blob"], "localpath/file.txt") #
```

### Delete package nodes
Use `del` to delete attributes:
``` python
del wine.raw.wine
```

### Edit metadata
Use the `_meta` attribute to attach any JSON-serializable dictionary of metadata to a group or a data node:

``` python
wine.mygroup._meta['foo'] = 'bar'
wine.mygroup._meta['created'] = time.time()
```

Data nodes contain a built-in key `_meta['_system']` with information such as the original file path. You may access it, but any modifications to it may be lost.

### Persist changes
At this point, your changes only exist in memory. To persist your
changes, read on to learn about  `build` and `push`.

## Build a package

Building a package creates a local bundle of serialized data. `$ quilt ls`
displays your local packages and their location on disk.

There are three ways to build data packages with Quilt:

1. Implicitly with `quilt build USR/PKG DIRECTORY`. Implicit builds are good for taking quick snapshots of unstructured data like images or text files. Quilt serializes columnar formats formats (xls, csv, tsv, etc.) to data frames; all other files will be copied "as is".

1. Explicitly with `quilt build USR/PKG FILE.YML`. Explicit builds allow fine-grained control over package names, types, and contents.

1. One the fly, in Python

Each of the above methods for building packages is supported in [Python](./api.md) and on the [command line](./api.md).

### Implicit builds

To implicitly build a package of unserialized data:

```bash
quilt build USR/PKG DIRECTORY
```
Everything in `DIR` and it's subdirectories will be packaged into `USR/PKG`.

To publish your package:
```bash
quilt push USR/PKG --public
```
Users on Individual and Business plans can omit the ~~`--public`~~ flag to create private packages.

### Explicit builds

Explicit builds cue from a YAML file, conventionally called `build.yml`.

```bash
quilt build USR/PKG BUILD.YML
```

`build.yml` specifies the structure and contents of a package.

#### `quilt generate` creates a `build.yml` file

An easy way to create a `build.yml` file is as follows:

```bash
quilt generate DIR
```

The above command creates `build.yml` and `README.md` files that you can modify to your liking. A `README.md` file is highly recommended as it populates your package landing page with documentation. See the API section for more on how README markdown is converted to HTML.

See [`build.yml` syntax](https://docs.quiltdata.com/api/build.yml) for more.

##### Directory and file naming in `quilt generate`
* Directories and files that start with a numeric character or underscore will be prefixed with the letter `n`. If a name collision results, the build will fail with an error.
* If two files have the same path and root name, but different file extensions (`foo.txt`, `foo.csv`), the extensions will be appended as follows: `foo_txt`, `foo_csv`. If, after appending, there remains a name collision, the build will fail with an error.

### Build on the fly

```python
# start with an empty package
quilt.build("akarve/foo")
# put some data in it
import pandas as pd
from quilt.data.akarve import foo
df = pd.DataFrame(data=[1,2,3])
foo._set(['bar'], df)
foo.bar()
# Output:
# 0
# 0	1
# 1	2
# 2	3
```

### Valid package names
Package handles take the form `USER_NAME/PACKAGE_NAME`. The package name and all of its children must be valid Python identifiers:
* Start with a letter
* Contain only alphanumerics and underscore

The above criteria ensure that packages can be accessed with Python's dot operator.

## Push a package
Pushing a package stores a built package in a server-side registry. Push a package
to back up changes or share your package with others.

```bash
$ quilt login # requires free account
$ quilt push USR/PKG --public
```

Or, in Python:
```python
# log in to the registry (requires a free account)
quilt.login()
# push it to the registry
quilt.push("USR/PKG", is_public=True)
```

Users on Individual and Business plans can omit ~~is_public=True~~ to create private packages.
